.TH gnugol 1  "January 02, 2011" "version 1" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
gnugol \- search web based search engines at the command line
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gnugol
[\-?] [\-o output_format] [\-e engine] [keywords]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The modern 
.B Web 
is a vast, wonderful resource for all kinds of
information. Searching it is a great IQ enhancer.
.PP
The modern 
.B search results 
page, on the other hand, is a vast source of colorized formatting,
innumerable fonts, javascript, multiple images, potential malware, and
advertising, with an ever changing look and feel based on the whim of
whatever graphic designer has a bee up their posterior that month, and
whatever new html features are trendy, with the answer(s) to your
question(s) buried somewhere deep within all that.
.PP
Gnugol is written in the spirit of "whois" and other stable command
line tools in that it always outputs a web search in the format you
want, whether that be html, org, markdown, textile, or plain text.

It outputs a basic combination of "url", "title", and "snippet" in
those formats.
.PP
A web browser is 
.B NOT 
required to use gnugol.
.PP
By outputting results in the format you want, with minimal (no)
markup, gnugol makes it easier to get your answers or create useful
content of your own, in the mode you are used to working in.
.PP
Gnugol reduces shiny web browser distractions while searching.
.PP
There is a gnugol.el for GNU Emacs included with the distribution that
makes many of gnugol's features available in Emacs buffers.
.PP
As it is written in C, gnugol is also lightweight and pretty fast.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-? \-\-help display help text. The features listed via this option are likely to be more up to date than this manual page!
.TP
\-e \-\-engine        [bing|google|dummy]

At some point more engines (citeseer, wikipedia, omega, etc) will be supported. To see the list of supported engines with this build, do a 
.PP
.B gnugol
--about engines
.PP
(The dummy engine is useful for testing)
.TP 
\-o \-\-output        [html|org|mdwn|wiki|text|term|textile]

The default output format is currently org. (The emacs based org-mode outliner format, for Emacs) After utf-8 word breaking is figured out it will probably default to term. More output formats will exist one day.

.TP
\-n \-\-nresults      number of results to fetch

The default is 5.

.TP
\-p \-\-position      start of results to fetch

The default is 0.
.TP
\-U \-\-escaped       input is already url escaped
Gnugol expects keywords in UTF-8 format, shell escaped, by default. A shell escaped AND url escaped argument is often simpler.
.TP
\-l \-\-language-in   [en|es|fr|nl or other 2 char locale]
.TP
\-L \-\-language-out  [en|es|fr|nl or other 2 char locale]
.TP
\-H \-\-header    0|1 disable/enable output header
.TP
\-F \-\-footer    0|1 disable/enable output footer
.TP
\-s \-\-snippets 0|1
disable/enable snippet output. Default: enabled.
.TP
\-t \-\-titles 0|1
disable/enable title output. Default: enabled.
.TP
\-u \-\-urls 0|1
disable/enable url output. Default: enabled.
.TP
-i --indent 0..5 
Amount of indentation of results
.TP
\-S \-\-safe 0|1|2 
Set the Pr0n-safety of the search. 
.PP
0 = all. 2 = none.
.PP
Default: 1. 
.TP
\-v \-\-verbose       provide more verbose insight
.TP
\-d \-\-debug X
Debug level. 1 = only catastrophic errors 11 = everything
.TP
\-a \-\-about [credits|copyright|license|source|config|keys|all]

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Basic search:
.B gnugol
in the beginning was the command line
.PP
.TP
Complex search, using google's site restriction parameter:
.B gnugol
\-e google -o mdwn site:nex-6.taht.net latency
.TP
Search bing, output results to elinks
.B gnugol
\-e bing -o html -H 1 -F 1 the Täht bug | elinks
.TP
For more examples see the web site at http://gnugol.taht.net
.PP
.SH EXIT STATUS
gnugol returns a negative exit status if the query fails.
.SH NOTES
To search bing, a license key is required. To search google, no
license key is required, however, it is highly recommended.

A google search is thus, currently, the default.
For more details:

.B gnugol
\-\-about keys

.SH BUGS
Lots! UTF\-8 support is incomplete at the moment. SSML is untested.
.SH AUTHOR
Michael ("Dave") Täht (d+gnugol (at) taht.net) 
.SH SEE ALSO
surfraw(1) whois(1) dig(1) nslookup(1) elinks(1) host(1) 
